add e2e docs (#7512)
RasaHQ/rasa: docs/docs/stories.mdx

> stories:

Reviewer: Above this under "format", we say that the inputs are expressed as intents and entities, and responses/actions as action names, which is not completely true anymore

- story: collect restaurant booking info  # name of the story - just for debugging
  steps:
  - intent: greet                          # user message with no entities
  - action: utter_ask_howcanhelp           # action that the bot should execute
  - intent: inform                         # user message with entities
    entities:
    - location: "rome"
    - price: "cheap"
  - bot: On it                             # actual text that bot can output
  - action: utter_ask_cuisine

>   - user: I would like [spanish](cuisine). # actual text that user input

Reviewer 2: @erohmensing What do you think of adding an explanation why we need to annotate entities like this in stories?

Reviewer: Yeah that would be helpful -- as you don't have to annotate the intent, i could see the difference there being confusing

Author: > why we need

what do you mean by `need`, the need comes from users

Reviewer 2: we need it as we use it to train NLU with it, no?

Author: we don't train NLU with it

Author: I wrote in the docs `In addition, you can add entity tags that will be extracted by the end-to-end policy.` I didn't write it'll be used in NLU

Author: rephrased it to "In addition, you can add entity tags that can be extracted by the `TEDPolicy`." so that it is explicit

>   - user: I would like [spanish](cuisine). # actual text that user input

Reviewer 2: considering this an experimental feature I'm wondering if it's worth adding this to the first example on this page here. In my opinion the introduction to the format should be clear and concise while covering the essential use cases. We can add formats for further usages in further sections and making it clear that this is an experimental feature.

Reviewer 2: I suggest having an additional section with all end-to-end things (similar as we have it for `checkpoints` or `OR statements`) instead of mixing it.

Author: reverted this example

Author: I don't think additional section will make it better, because you can mix them. I think current structure in `User Messages` and `Actions` is better

  - action: utter_ask_num_people
```

> 

Reviewer: Please add a link to the training data format page here for more specifics

### User Messages

> While writing stories, you have two options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While writing stories, you have two options to represent user input.
```

> 1) You do not have to deal with the specific contents of

Reviewer 2: Is this actually rendering as proper MD list?

Author: update so it is the same as other lists

  - action: utter_ask_num_people
```

See the [training data format](./training-data-format.mdx#stories)

> for detailed description of how to write stories.

Reviewer 3: 🤔 why?

Author: I was asked in one of the comments above. I can remove that

entities (you can, however, change this behavior using the
[use_entities](./domain.mdx#ignoring-entities-for-certain-intents) attribute).

2) You do not have to deal with the specific
intents of the messages that are extracted by the NLU pipeline. Instead, you can simply put
the text of the user message.
We call it end-to-end training because actual text is used for predictions.

:::caution

> This feature is experimental.

Reviewer 4: Are we actually raising a warning from inside the code when users are using this feature?

Author: hm, I guess no. I think we should do it when we know that stories are `e2e`. @joejuzl I think you added this check somewhere, could you please add the warning

> :::caution
> This feature is experimental.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution experimental feature
End-to-end training is an experimental feature.
```

entities (you can, however, change this behavior using the
[use_entities](./domain.mdx#ignoring-entities-for-certain-intents) attribute).

> 

Reviewer 3: pls remove

in a story. Similarly, you can indicate that a story should call a custom action by including
the name of the custom action from the `actions` list in your domain.

You can also put bot utterance directly in the stories.

:::caution
This feature is experimental.
We introduce experimental features to get feedback from our community, so we encourage you to try it out!
However, the functionality might be changed or removed in the future.
If you have feedback (positive or negative) please share it with us on the [Rasa Forum](https://forum.rasa.com).

> :::

Reviewer: I would also put this under 2 options so that users know that it's only the 2nd option that is experimental. Also rephrase the warning as i've done above on the other one

We introduce experimental features to get feedback from our community, so we encourage you to try it out!
However, the functionality might be changed or removed in the future.
If you have feedback (positive or negative) please share it with us on the [Rasa Forum](https://forum.rasa.com).

:::

With end-to-end training, you do not have to deal with the specific
intents of the messages that are extracted by the NLU pipeline
or with separate `utter_` responses in the domain file.
Instead, you can include the text of the user messages and/or bot responses directly in your stories.
See the [training data format](./training-data-format.mdx#end-to-end-training)
for detailed description of how to write end-to-end stories.

You can mix training data in the end-to-end format with labeled training data which has 
`intent`s and `action`s specified: Stories can have some steps defined by intents/actions
and other steps defined directly by user or bot utterances.

We call it end-to-end training because policies can consume and predict actual text.
For end-to-end user inputs, intents classified by the NLU pipeline
and extracted entities are ignored.

> Only [Rule Policy](./policies.mdx#rule-policy)

Reviewer 2: should we mention that they should set `intent_tokenization_flag: True`?

Author: why? they don't have to use it. It is optional

Reviewer 2: Ok - maybe my real question is: Why did we set this in the example bot?

Author: tokenizing names is an option that is nice to have for advanced users if they create consistent action names, it is not required to train e2e model

it is an optional configuration decision that might improve bot performance

This format is only used for testing and cannot be used for training.

:::

## End-to-end Training

:::caution experimental feature
End-to-end training is an experimental feature.
We introduce experimental features to get feedback from our community, so we encourage you to try it out!
However, the functionality might be changed or removed in the future.
If you have feedback (positive or negative) please share it with us on the [Rasa Forum](https://forum.rasa.com).

:::

With end-to-end training, you do not have to deal with the specific
intents of the messages that are extracted by the NLU pipeline
or with separate `utter_` responses in the domain file.
Instead, you can put the texts of the user and/or bot messages directly in the stories.
See the [training data format](./training-data-format.mdx#end-to-end-training-stories)
for detailed description of how to write end-to-end stories.

> You can mix training data in end-to-end format with labeled training data which has `intent`s and `action`s specified. This means stories can have steps defined by actions
> and other steps defined by user or bot utterances directly.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can mix training data in the end-to-end format with labeled training data which has 
`intent`s and `action`s specified: Stories can have some steps defined by intents/actions
and other steps defined directly by user or bot utterances.
```

> We call it end-to-end training because actual text is fed into policies.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We call it end-to-end training because actual text can be consumed and learnt to be predicted by policies.
```

:::note nlu is ignored during e2e
For end-to-end user inputs, intents classified by the NLU pipeline
and extracted entities are ignored.

:::

Only [Rule Policy](./policies.mdx#rule-policy)
and [TED Policy](./policies.mdx#ted-policy) allow end-to-end training.

- `RulePolicy` uses simple string matching during prediction. Namely,
  rules based on user text will only match if the user
  text strings inside your rules and input during prediction are identical.

- `TEDPolicy` passes user text through an additional Neural Network to create
  hidden representations of the text. In order to obtain robust performance you

>   need to create sufficient number of stories that have different user texts
>   during this dialogue turn.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  need to provide enough training stories to capture a variety of user texts for any given dialogue turn.
```

>   need to create sufficient number of stories that have different user texts
>   during this dialogue turn.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  need to provide enough training stories to capture a variety of user texts for any 
  end-to-end dialogue turn.
```

This format is only used for testing and cannot be used for training.

:::

## End-to-end Training

:::caution experimental feature
End-to-end training is an experimental feature.
We introduce experimental features to get feedback from our community, so we encourage you to try it out!
However, the functionality might be changed or removed in the future.
If you have feedback (positive or negative) please share it with us on the [Rasa Forum](https://forum.rasa.com).

:::

With end-to-end training, you do not have to deal with the specific
intents of the messages that are extracted by the NLU pipeline

> or with separate `utter_` templates in the domain file.

Reviewer 2: they are now called `responses`
```suggestion
or with separate `utter_` responses in the domain file.
```

> Instead, you can put the texts of the user and/or bot messages directly in the stories.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Instead, you can include the text of the user messages and/or bot responses directly in your stories.
```

> Instead, you can simply put the texts of the user and/or bot messages directly in the stories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, you can put the texts of the user and/or bot messages directly in the stories.
```

> See the [training data format](./training-data-format.mdx#end-to-end-training-stories)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
See the [training data format](./training-data-format.mdx#end-to-end-training)
```

for detailed description of how to write end-to-end stories.

Rasa end-to-end training is fully integrated with standard Rasa approach.

> It means that you can have mixed stories with some steps defined by actions

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
It means that you can have mixed stories with some steps defined by intents or actions
```

> and other steps defined by user or bot utterance directly.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
and other steps defined directly by user or bot utterances.
```

> Rasa end-to-end training is fully integrated with standard Rasa approach.
> It means that you can have mixed stories with some steps defined by actions
> and other steps defined by user or bot utterance directly.

Reviewer 2: ?
```suggestion
You can mix training data in end-to-end format with labeled training data which has `intent`s and `action`s specified. This means stories can have steps defined by actions
and other steps defined by user or bot utterances directly.
```

We call it end-to-end training because actual text is fed into policies.

:::note nlu is ignored during e2e
For end-to-end user inputs, intents classified by the NLU pipeline

> and extracted entities are ignored.

Reviewer 2: I'd add that they should still provide NLU training data. Users might otherwise think they can ignore NLU completely.

Author: what do you mean? if they don't have intents in the stories, they don't need NLU data

Reviewer 2: Mhm, but isn't the `CountVectorizer`'s vocabulary relatively small (unless they have very very many end-to-end stories)? Having NLU training data seems the easier way to provide the data to me?

Author: not sure I understand what do you mean? the fact that you'll increase `CVF`'s vocabulary with NLU data will not affect TEDPolicy training

Author: NLU and e2e core is effectively independent, the only reason we reuse featurization is to avoid duplication, so data in NLU doesn’t influence e2e core model and data in e2e core doesn’t influence NLU model.

:::

Only [Rule Policy](./policies.mdx#rule-policy)
and [TED Policy](./policies.mdx#ted-policy) allow end-to-end training.

- `RulePolicy` uses simple string matching during prediction. Namely,
  rules based on user text will only match if the user
  text strings inside your rules and input during prediction are identical.

> - `TEDPolicy` passes user text through additional Neural Network to create

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `TEDPolicy` passes user text through an additional Neural Network to create
```

>   hidden representation of the text. In order to obtain robust performance you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  hidden representations of the text. In order to obtain robust performance you
```

  need to create sufficient number of stories that have different user texts
  during this dialogue turn.

> :::note next utterance selection

Reviewer 2: I think this should be a section instead of a note.

Rasa policies are trained for next utterance selection.

> The only difference to creating `utter_` template is how `TEDPolicy` featurizes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The only difference to creating `utter_` response is how `TEDPolicy` featurizes
```

bot utterances.

> In case of a template, `TEDPolicy` sees only the name of the template, while

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case of a template, `TEDPolicy` sees only the name of the template, while
```
```suggestion
In case of an `utter_` action, `TEDPolicy` sees only the name of the action, while
```

if you provide actual utterance using `bot:` key,
`TEDPolicy` will featurize it as textual input depending on the NLU configuration.

> Which can help in case of similar utterances in slightly different situations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can help in case of similar utterances in slightly different situations.
```

> But can also make things harder to learn.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, this can also make things harder to learn because ....
```

This format is only used for testing and cannot be used for training.

:::

## End-to-end Training

:::caution experimental feature
End-to-end training is an experimental feature.
We introduce experimental features to get feedback from our community, so we encourage you to try it out!
However, the functionality might be changed or removed in the future.

> If you have feedback (positive or negative) please share it with us on the [Rasa Forum](https://forum.rasa.com).

Reviewer 3: Might make sense to actually create a specific forum thread for it

- `RulePolicy` uses simple string matching during prediction. Namely,
  rules based on user text will only match if the user
  text strings inside your rules and input during prediction are identical.

- `TEDPolicy` passes user text through additional Neural Network to create
  hidden representation of the text. In order to obtain robust performance you
  need to create sufficient number of stories that have different user texts
  during this dialogue turn.

:::note next utterance selection
Rasa policies are trained for next utterance selection.
The only difference to creating `utter_` template is how `TEDPolicy` featurizes
bot utterances.
In case of a template, `TEDPolicy` sees only the name of the template, while
if you provide actual utterance using `bot:` key,
`TEDPolicy` will featurize it as textual input depending on the NLU configuration.
Which can help in case of similar utterances in slightly different situations.
But can also make things harder to learn.

:::

:::note increased train time
End-to-end training requires significantly more parameters in `TEDPolicy`.
Therefore, training an end-to-end model might require significant computational

> resources depending on how many end-to-end turns you have in your stories.

Reviewer 3: there's too many notes on this page imo, if it's important enough, it should just go in the text of the docs

Author: removed notes
